Welcome to Integrating
iOS 7 Technologies.
My name is Paul Marcos, and I'm the
App Services Evangelist at Apple.
Now all day we've been talking
obviously about iOS 7 and all the new
technology that comes along with the
new version of the operating system.
And there's a ton of
stuff that we put out.
And this slide is actually pretty common.
Every year we put out
a new version of iOS,
and it has a whole bunch
of new technology in it.
And I think one of the challenges
that app developers like you face
is with every year figuring out,
how do you take this new technology
and do something with it?
How do you apply it in
practice in your application?
Now in this session,
we're going to continue talking
about some of these new technologies.
I'm going to cover three new areas.
And I want to do so in a way that
really helps understand how you
can apply this new technology and
enhance a couple specific experiences
that the people using your apps
have when they use your apps.
So the three areas that I want
to talk about are first,
background transfers and how
you can use that to minimize
your install time of your app.
Second,
I want to talk about multitasking,
which John talked a little
bit about this morning,
and how you can take advantage of new
APIs to make your app always be ready
for when someone wants to use it.
And then lastly, one of our most exciting
new technologies is iBeacon.
So we'll talk about how you can use
that to really enhance the location
aware app that you may be developing.
So let's start off with
background transfers.
And the experience that I want to focus
on here centers around this alert.
I'm sure you're all
familiar with this alert,
the cellular download limit alert.
Your customers will see this when
they try to install your app and
they're not on a Wi-Fi network if
your app is over a certain size.
Now, we just raised that size from
50 megabytes to 100 megabytes,
and that's great.
But if you have an app that's
still over 100 megabytes,
this is a problem for you.
And in fact,
this is one of the most common
questions that we're having.
One of the questions that we get as
evangelists at Apple is how can I get my
app under the cellular download limit?
How can I get it under 50
megabytes or now 100 megabytes?
And that's an interesting question,
but it's not really the right question.
The right question that I think you
should be focusing on is how can you
minimize the install time of your app?
Because that's really what
matters to your users,
right?
From the time they tap buy or install,
in the App Store,
to when they can use it.
That's the important amount of time,
and that's what I want to focus on,
how you can minimize that.
Now in order to do that,
I have a checklist of just three
simple tasks that you can perform.
The first two of take
inventory and use compression,
those are really actually
just best practices.
So some of the things that we
hear come up time and time again
when we talk with developers.
And then the third one,
download things later,
that's where the new
technology in iOS 7 comes in.
So I'll go through all three of these,
starting with taking inventory.
And what I mean by taking
inventory is I want you to perform
this exercise with your app.
So using iTunes,
go download your app from the iTunes,
or from the App Store, excuse me.
And once it's downloaded,
You can go find the .IPA
file that got downloaded.
And that .IPA file is really
just simply a zip file,
so you can change the extension to
.zip and you can expand that archive.
So now you have the files that
were delivered from the app store.
In that zip archive,
you can find your actual app bundle.
And using the finder show
package contents command,
you can open it, and then you have access
to all your files.
And what I want you to do is
review every file that's in there.
Think about why is this file here?
Sort this list by size, biggest first,
and go through it that way.
And I think a lot of you
will be surprised by the
things that you find in there.
And I know that because we talk with a
lot of developers and we do exactly this,
and there are a lot of really
surprising things in your applications.
So we regularly will find
things like readme files.
We find Photoshop documents in apps.
You know,
iOS doesn't render Photoshop documents,
so why is it there?
We find source files,
things copied in from, you know,
third party libraries.
A lot of these end up in your app
bundle simply because you dragged it
in Xcode and inadvertently added it
as a resource for the application.
So that's really what you're trying
to identify here are files that got
added as resources and now you're
shipping them through the app store.
Another category of files
that we find really commonly,
are just obsolete resources.
So things that were there
legitimately at one point in time,
but your designs have changed, right.
You maybe have changed your UI.
A really good example of
where this might happen,
and something you should watch out for,
is you've probably all been
working on an iOS 7-based design,
but you're still supporting iOS 6.
But when you drop support for iOS 6,
you need to make sure that you
go through your resources and
clean out all the old artwork,
right.
That's a really common
thing for us to see.
Another place where you can get some
great space savings and just throw out
some trash is in artwork like this.
You might have a button
where those middle pixels,
they're really just repeated
pixels stretched horizontally,
and they're really just
taking up space on disk.
So using Xcode 5's new slicing feature,
you can actually express that these
middle pixels can be repeated,
and we can stretch that at runtime.
So at build time,
what we'll do is we'll actually
compress that graphic for you.
And then at runtime,
we'll automatically stretch it
with no performance penalties.
So this first item of taking
inventory really just amounts
to take out the trash,
go in your app,
and get rid of all the files
that are taking up disk space
that don't need to be there.
Now the second one, use compression.
Now more than likely
you're already doing this,
but it doesn't hurt to double check.
And you want to focus on the
things that take the most space,
like video.
You want to make sure you're
using H.264 compression.
You get great compression
and space savings on disk
with no sacrifice in quality.
Same thing for audio.
If your app has audio
tracks of any length,
you want to make sure you're
using AAC or at least MP3.
And for really good savings,
if you're using 44.1 kilohertz right now,
consider dropping that
sample rate down to 22.05.
Most users will never
even notice a difference,
and you can get a good space savings.
And then for images,
for photographic image content
that you have in your app,
make sure that you use
JPEG instead of PNGs.
And let me show you an example here.
So this is the Starwood app.
It's a travel app.
They have these beautiful
photographs of beautiful places in
the world that you want to go visit.
And I did a calculation on this
one where if these images were
shipped as PNGs instead of JPEGs,
the app would be 20% bigger
than it needed to be.
That's huge.
That's very easily the difference
between being over the cellular
limit or under the cellular limit.
And on all of our hardware now,
we can do hardware
accelerated JPEG rendering,
so there's no penalty in using JPEGs.
And in cases like this,
with these beautiful photographs,
users aren't going to
notice a difference.
Even on a retina display,
you can get great quality
using JPEG and save space.
So those are the first two items.
And these may seem really basic,
and you may say, I'm already doing this.
But we see this time and time again.
So it really warrants kind
of going through it here
because it is a best practice,
and I'm willing to bet that
almost all of you would benefit
from these two things alone.
Now, going beyond that,
this is where iOS 7 technology comes in.
You could consider
downloading things later.
And what I mean by that is consider
taking assets that are in your app
store bundle and removing them,
separate them out,
and download them at a later
point in time after the
user has installed the app.
Now, the important thing to note
here is that this really,
this may not be right
for all applications.
This is something that you
have to evaluate for your app.
Simply, there's no single right
answer for how to do this.
And you don't want to sacrifice a
user experience of that first install
and first launch by doing this.
But if you can come up with a
way to separate your assets,
and I've got a couple scenarios
that we'll talk about,
then this might be the right
thing for you to consider doing.
And it can really
improve this experience.
It does come at a cost
of complexity a bit.
You may need to represent in your
UI the state of these additional
files that need to be downloaded.
You certainly have to handle the
case where these files are missing,
right?
The disk may fill up and you may have
to present to the user something that
makes sense about pieces are missing.
Those are scenarios that you don't
have to worry about if you include
them in the app store bundle,
because from your perspective,
that's an atomic operation.
Either everything is there or it's not.
And this certainly will
complicate your testing matrices,
right?
You just have more scenarios
to test to make sure that
your app behaves correctly.
[ Transcript missing ]
So to accomplish this,
the new technology in iOS 7
that we've introduced is the
background transfer service.
So let me just give a quick
overview of what it is.
Simply put, it's a service to upload and
download content in the background.
And when I say background,
I don't mean like in a background
thread that you create or you manage.
I actually mean it's done in a
different process altogether,
right?
It's done in a system daemon.
So it's a service to upload and
download content in the background.
And the great thing about this is that
means that your app can actually be
suspended or it can even be terminated,
and those background
downloads will continue.
Primarily, this is intended for
large amounts of data,
so things that would take long
enough that you might not be
able to do them in your process
before the user leaves your app.
And after these transfers are done,
even if you have not been running in the
foreground or your app was terminated,
your app will get relaunched in the
background and then you can process
the results of these transfers.
So this is just a new set of
functionality that you just
simply couldn't do in iOS 6.
And in order to do this,
you use a new class in
iOS 7 called NSURLSession.
And let me,
I can just go through a simple
code example to give you an
idea of how the API works.
So the first step in doing this
is you create a NSURLSession
configuration object.
And there's a couple different
types of these configuration
objects that are available in iOS 7.
I'm focusing on this one that
you get by calling the background
session configuration object.
Because that's the one that
will hand off work to the
system daemon in the background.
Now once you get this
configuration object,
you're ready to set up a session object,
an NSURLSession object.
So you specify the
configuration you want.
And then you provide a
delegate and a delegate queue.
And we use a delegate pattern,
which is very common throughout our APIs.
This delegate is the object that
will be called back when we need to
ask about authentication challenges,
that we want to notify about progress,
or when the transfers are completed.
And now you have a session object
in your hands and you're ready
to begin adding tasks to it.
In order to do that, you have a URL,
which is your URL to a resource,
you know,
probably on your server or somewhere on
the internet that you want to download.
And you simply ask the session,
I'd like a download task with this URL.
And you get back a task object that
represents the state of that transfer
happening in a background daemon.
Now these transfers are
created paused by default.
So when you get this task operation back,
in order to actually start the transfer,
you simply call resume on it.
And now the background demon will
start downloading your content.
Now these task objects support all
of the typical things that you would
find in a network transfer operation.
You can suspend them,
you can resume them, you can cancel them,
right?
Those are the typical things.
And these task objects are what you
would use if you were to build a user
interface around these operations,
right?
So if you want to present to the
user the status of these transfers,
these are the objects you
would center that around.
And I mentioned when the
transfers are completed,
there's a new UI application
delegate method that will
be invoked that you provide.
And it's a callback that basically
says you need to handle some
events in this background session.
And you're past a completion handler,
and I'll talk a little bit more about
the completion handler in a second.
When you implement these methods,
the common thing to see is you
reestablish your connection
to the session object,
you get the list of tasks
that have been completed,
and then you handle the results.
If you've downloaded something,
you unpack the contents and you save it.
If you were uploading something,
maybe you just let the user know
that your upload has been finished.
And I should mention everywhere in this
section that I talk about downloading,
you can replace that with upload,
and it's all the same.
So this is up for
uploading and downloading.
Now there's a couple considerations
that you need to keep in mind
when you're implementing this
new UI application delegate method.
And the first is that if you're
running in the background,
if we're notifying you when
you're in the background,
you only have a short
amount of time to run.
And by short, I mean on the order of
seconds as opposed to minutes.
You can see how much time you
have remaining by inspecting
this background time remaining
property on UI application.
And that completion handler
that I mentioned that was called
into this new delegate method,
you need to call that when you're
done processing the results of
this download or this transfer.
If you don't call it,
then iOS will terminate your app.
We need to hear back from
you when you are done.
And you want to call
it as soon as possible.
So you want to do as
little work as possible,
be finished,
and then call the completion handler.
And then this next item
is extremely important,
and I'm going to repeat it
a few times throughout the
remainder of this presentation.
You need to be aware of data protection.
And if you have not come
across data protection,
or if you haven't looked into it,
or haven't had a need for it yet,
as you adopt these new APIs,
it's critical that you understand
how it works and what it
means to your application.
Not only will your app potentially
be running in the background,
where it may be the first time
you're running in the background,
you may also be running
when the device is locked.
And when the device is locked,
if there is a passcode,
that means that data protection
is going to be enforced.
And when data protection is in effect,
some things like keychain
items or files on disk may
not be accessible by your app.
And you need to understand
what the ramifications of that
are and how to deal with it.
Now, our next session on security and
privacy is going to go into more
details about data protection,
so I'll leave the details to that.
But just for this point,
just be aware that you need
to understand data protection
and what it means to your app.
So now you're done downloading stuff,
and now the question is,
what do you do with it?
So you're invoked in the background,
and you need to save this data somewhere.
And SURL session itself is
only going to hang on to the
downloaded contents temporarily,
up until the point you call
that completion handler.
So if you want to store this
data that you downloaded for
an extended period of time,
which you probably do,
at least in this example of separating
assets out of your app bundle,
you need to move it somewhere,
and you would put it in
your app sandbox somewhere.
It's critical here that you pay attention
to the iOS data storage guidelines.
Now,
if you've never read these guidelines,
you definitely want to go do that.
What they tell you are the places
on disk where it's appropriate
for you to store things,
right?
What types of files should go
in the temporary directory,
in the app support directory,
in documents, and things like that.
So it just kind of lays out
where you should put things.
It also documents what files will be
by default included in a user's backup.
Especially the user's iCloud backup.
And it's really important that you
are aware of those and adhere to these
guidelines because the app review team
is applying these guidelines and they're
enforcing them when they review your app.
And this is a really common reason
that developers get rejected is
because you have files in a place
that are included in an iCloud
backup that they don't need to be.
So you want to read these guidelines.
If you do have files that you're storing
somewhere that don't need to be included,
you want to read these guidelines.
So this is a very simple API on
the NSURL where you save the files.
Just simply call set
resource value for key,
specifying this key that
indicates this file should not
be included in the background.
So really easy and that will
help you get through the review
process with no problems.
So that's the third item in this
checklist for minimizing install time.
And that's, like I said,
these first two items of just
making sure you clean things up,
use compression,
those are the best practices.
And those apply to everybody,
no matter what kind of
app you're developing.
And then the third thing,
considering breaking things up.
You might look at using NSURLSession to
do the background uploads and downloads.
And NSURLSession really is the
future of foundation networking.
This is a fundamental shift in how you
should be writing your networking code.
And you want to be adopting it now.
Eventually,
NSURLs connection will go away
in favor of NSURL connection.
So, you know, jump on the bandwagon now,
and that'll serve you well in the future.
And then lastly, pay attention to the iOS
data storage guidelines for a
great app review experience.
So that's background transfers and
how you can use new I/O 7 technology
to minimize your install time.
Next up,
I want to talk about multitasking,
which John talked a little
bit about this morning.
And in iOS 7,
obviously you're all familiar with
the new multitasking interface where
users can see a snapshot of your
app even when it's not running.
This gives people great insight
into the state of your app.
And this is the experience that I want
to talk about how you can enhance it.
And the enhancement really comes
around keeping these snapshots alive,
right?
Keeping them up to date
over time and giving this,
your application the impression
that it is running all the time
and it's always up to date.
And most importantly,
like John talked about,
that your app is always ready, right?
That's one of the things that
will really differentiate a
great app from just a good app.
So a couple examples, you know,
you might have a chat or a messaging app.
Where push notifications are
coming in and in response
to those push notifications,
you know, yeah, the user sees them in
notification center,
but maybe they're busy and
they ignore them and then
kind of forget what was there.
Well, with these new multitasking APIs,
you can update your snapshot
and reflect the new messages,
right?
Update the chat transcript so
that they see in the switcher
that there's new content there.
Or another example,
so many apps have social
network feeds in them,
right?
And over the period of a day as
the user is using their device,
they may not be going into your app,
but these new APIs give you a
hook where you can periodically
update that app snapshot with new
content from people's social feed.
So a couple really great ways
to keep these snapshots alive.
So let me talk a little bit about
where these snapshots come from and
then what the new opportunities are.
So the typical sequence
would look like this.
Someone launches your application,
and as part of your
launch or your activation,
you're going to go fetch new
content from your server,
from social networks.
You'll update your internal state,
and then you'll update
the state of the UI.
You'll show the new messages
or new feed contents.
Then they'll use your app,
and at some point they'll hit the
home button and they'll leave the app,
at which point your
app will get suspended.
And that's when iOS will take a snap.
of your app.
Now this flow is obviously user driven,
right?
It's based on user activity.
And what's new in iOS 7 is we have
a couple new entry points into the
same flow that ultimately lead to you
being able to update your snapshot.
And these are driven by iOS and
they're actually new background modes.
There's two of them,
remote notification and background fetch.
Both of these can be configured
in Xcode's capabilities panel.
They are, as I said,
new background modes that are shown
here down at the bottom of the list.
And the key thing to point out
here is that these new background
modes are available to all apps.
If you look at the list of
background modes we had previously,
they were fairly specific
in use and purpose,
just for updating location
in the background,
or a voice over IP app.
Or playing audio,
or using AirPlay in the background.
And your app had to do that
specific function in order
to use the background mode.
But these new background modes
are available to all apps.
And because they're driven
or initiated by iOS,
we can do so in a power smart way.
So we can ensure that people's
batteries aren't going to be drained.
So let me go through both of these
new background modes and give
just an overview of how they work
and what you can do with them.
So starting with remote notifications,
really all this means is that you can
send push notifications to your app and
they'll now be delivered regardless of
whether the app is in the front or not.
They'll be delivered to your app
even if you're in the background.
[ Transcript missing ]
You might want to update
your social network feed
periodically throughout the day.
And after doing this background fetch,
that's your opportunity for
updating the app snapshot.
Now, as I mentioned,
both of these new things
are really initiated by iOS.
And in the background fetch case,
we'll take two things into consideration.
One is, we'll base it on previous
usage of your app.
So we're kind of looking out for
patterns that people use your app
throughout the course of a day.
And let's say you have an app.
There's a bunch of games that
I'll play in the morning before
I go to work and then in the
evening after I'm out of work.
And I'll be at home.
And iOS will notice that, oh,
these apps get launched in
the morning and the evening.
And after a little while,
we'll start seeing that pattern.
And what iOS will do is launch your app,
launch those games just a little
bit before we think the user's
going to go into the game.
So it gives you an opportunity to get
up to date before the user is there
so that when they do launch your app,
you have the latest information and
you feel like you're always up to date.
[ Transcript missing ]
Now when you're updating your content,
just like the background transfers,
you want to call the completion
handler as soon as possible.
If you don't call it soon enough
within the amount of time you
have to run in the background,
iOS will terminate your app.
And that's very similar to if
you don't suspend or resume
or launch quickly enough,
iOS will terminate the app.
So in order to avoid being terminated,
you want to keep your
fetches as small as possible.
Fetch just the metadata that
you need to update the UI.
If you do realize that there is new
data that you do want to download,
you know, maybe there's new pictures
available in someone's social feed,
there's a new file available
that you want to download,
that's a great use for the
background transfer service.
So you can use some of these
new technologies really in
conjunction with each other.
So use the background fetch to know
when there's new stuff and then queue
up a background download to go get it.
And if your app uses OpenGL,
you may be thinking, well,
I'm not allowed to draw using
OpenGL when my app is in the background.
And so we've also changed
this a little bit.
During the time when we call the
UI application delegate method,
between that time and when you
call the completion handler,
you can use OpenGL even if
you're in the background.
Now,
you want to be as efficient as possible.
And if you can get away with
rendering a single frame,
you know, that would be great.
So do that.
You know, just render a single frame,
update the UI,
and we'll take a snapshot of that.
But you can use OpenGL in the background
during these delegate callbacks.
And just like before,
be aware of data protection.
Now, this is an interesting case
where you may be getting launched
to do a background fetch.
And just by the very
nature of fetching things,
you probably are going to need
to check in with your server.
And you may need credentials to do that.
And by default,
credentials in the key chain are going to
not be available if the device is locked.
So we have seen this trip
up some developers already,
where they've tried to
get the credentials.
They've failed.
Maybe didn't have the error checking
around that that they should have.
Then went and tried to
log into their server.
And that obviously failed,
because they don't have the credentials.
And then they got into a kind of a
confused state where they thought,
oh, the authentication failed.
The password's bad.
We'll log the user out.
So we've just seen some
confusion around this.
And that tells me that maybe people
aren't paying as much attention
to data protection as they should.
And that's why I'm here pleading to you
to make sure that you understand data
protection and what it means to your app.
So that's multitasking.
It's new APIs that let you
keep your apps up to date.
And most importantly,
keep these app snapshots up to date.
Remote notifications let you
get your push notifications,
even in the background.
And now you can send
silent notifications,
background fetching,
new opportunities to update your
content before the user needs it,
to really let them feel like
your app is always ready.
And again, I promise,
I think this is the last time
I'll say this this session,
be aware of using data protection
when the-- or be aware of when the
device is locked using data protection.
So that's some new
multitasking APIs in iOS 7.
Now lastly, let me move on to iBeacon,
probably our most interesting new
technology that I'm talking about here,
certainly.
So what is iBeacon?
So very simply put,
iBeacon is a Bluetooth low energy
device that is simply emitting a signal,
a unidirectional signal
that's being emitted.
And in that signal is an identifier.
And what that enables is it lets an iOS
device detect when it's near an iBeacon.
And when it detects that,
it can actually respond to it.
And most importantly,
it can notify an app that the
device is now near an iBeacon.
Now, there's a couple of
new APIs that we have,
or a couple APIs you use
to integrate with iBeacon.
The first is region monitoring.
That's actually an existing API.
And then the second is ranging.
And that's a new set of APIs.
So let me go through both of
these to explain what they are.
Now, region monitoring, as I mentioned,
it uses the same core location
APIs that we've had actually
for a good number of releases,
I think back to iOS 4.
And we use those APIs for
doing geofencing,
right,
for doing notifications of when a device
moves into or out of a geographic area.
Now those are great APIs,
and we're using the same
API for doing beacon regions,
what we call beacon regions,
an area defined around an iBeacon.
But iBeacons are much more flexible
because they're not tied to a
specific place on the planet.
They're typically battery operated,
so you can attach them to
things that move around,
and that really enables some very
interesting location awareness in apps.
You could put them on a subway,
on a train, or a bus,
or something like that,
and now an app can detect when
it's near a bus or a train
has pulled into the station.
You could put them on a cruise ship.
Cruise ships moving around
the planet all the time.
And it's also made up of levels,
which is kind of interesting.
That's a challenge for geofencing because
that tends to be just a single point.
So you could put iBeacons in
different places on the ship and
do a lot of interesting things with
an app that users use on a ship.
Or, you know,
for more accurate indoor location.
We just recently rolled this out in
a lot of our Apple retail stores.
So iBeacons can really enable more
accurate detection of location
indoors where GPS signals have
a very hard time penetrating.
So another place that we use
this in iOS is in Passbook.
So to make a pass relevant
on the lock screen,
you could specify a
latitude and longitude.
And now in iOS 7, you can specify a pass.
So iBeacons can really enable more
accurate detection of location
indoors where GPS signals have
a very hard time penetrating.
So another place that we use
this in iOS is in Passbook.
a beacon.
And we actually did that -- we're
doing that for the tech talks.
This morning, we had an eye beacon on
the registration table.
So, as you walked up to
the registration table,
if you saw the pass on your lock screen,
that was because it detected
that eye beacon sitting there.
So that's the region monitoring APIs,
based on the same APIs we had before,
just with a new way of
triggering the notifications.
Now,
the new APIs in iOS 7 are around ranging.
And what ranging is,
is it's a set of APIs that will give
you an estimated proximity to a beacon.
And we categorize this
proximity into three zones,
right?
Immediate, near, and far.
And let me talk through each of
these and explain what they are.
The immediate zone is reported
when a device is really
right up next to an iBeacon,
measured probably on the
order of centimeters.
It probably represents,
if for example the corner
of this table was a beacon,
it probably represents a user actually
taking a very intentional action of
holding their device up to the beacon.
And because we're so close to the beacon,
the signal strength from
the beacon is very strong.
And all the detection of iBeacons
is based on signal strength.
And when we have a very
strong signal strength,
we can be very confident of
the distance to that beacon.
Moving further out from
there is the near zone.
That's probably on the
order of a few meters.
We probably still have
a good signal strength,
so we have reasonable confidence
on the accuracy of that proximity.
That might be here in
this immediate area,
the first few rows or so.
And then going beyond that
is what we call the far zone.
And that's more than a few meters,
kind of on up towards the
edge of the Bluetooth signal.
This whole notion of signal strength
and the accuracy and the proximity
is really the important part that
I want to focus on here today.
In order to understand the
importance in how the signal
strength affects the accuracy,
I want to draw a parallel
to how GPS works in Maps.
So here's the Maps app.
And you're probably all familiar
with your location in the middle
with this blue circle around it,
which represents the margin of
error that we have around our
confidence of where you actually are.
So the accuracy with iBeacons
is just like with GPS.
When we have a weak signal,
when the signal from the satellites
or from an iBeacon are weak,
we have a high margin of error,
just meaning that we can't be confident
about specifically where you are.
In maps, that's represented by, you know,
a fairly large blue circle on
the order of a kilometer or so.
Now, as the signal from the
satellites improves,
maybe the device was indoors
in this example and now
it's kind of moved outdoors,
that blue circle will shrink down
because we have a stronger signal.
And now we can kind of say, well,
we know we can shrink this area
and say you're in a smaller circle.
And then when we finally get a really
strong signal and we have a direct
line of sight to the satellites,
you know, that blue circle goes away
altogether and now we say,
okay, we know where you are.
You're right here.
Now this idea of accuracy and this
kind of concept of this blue circle
is really the same for iBeacons.
Now iBeacons have an accuracy.
And what that is when you're looking at
this in code is it's our guess as to how
far away from the iBeacon you may be.
So it's our estimate of the distance.
And it is just an estimate.
And if you're really into statistics,
I'm going to be very
specific here for a second,
it's actually a one sigma estimate.
So if that means anything to the
statistics folks in the crowd.
And if you take that estimate
and you were to double it,
then that raises the question,
it raises our confidence to 95%.
We are 95% sure that you are within
that distance from the beacon.
So that's just my little side spiel
on the accuracy going into statistics.
Now the thing that affects
signal strength the most is,
or sorry,
the importance of the signal strength
has to do with signal attenuation
and things that affect the signal
strength and minimize it especially.
So now Bluetooth, this is all based on
Bluetooth technology.
So Bluetooth uses the 2.4 gigahertz
frequency for sending signals.
And that frequency range is, you know,
it's affected by physical objects, by,
you know, desks or walls or doors,
things like that.
And that can affect the signal strength.
It can reduce the signal strength,
which minimizes the
signal that we receive,
thereby affecting our
confidence in the accuracy.
Now this 2.4 gigahertz frequency
is also affected by water,
it turns out.
And since our bodies are
mostly made up of water,
this can really have an effect on the
accuracy when you're using iBeacons.
And this is an important thing to keep
in mind as you're deploying iBeacons.
So, you know,
if you have an app that is using
iBeacons and your user actually
has their device like in their
pocket or it's in a purse and it's
being held up against their body,
then their body may actually be
affecting the signal strength,
depending where the beacon is located.
Again,
if it's on the corner of that table,
if I have the signal or my phone
in my pocket and I'm facing it,
that might be one thing.
But if I've turned around and now it,
you know,
is blocked by my leg or by my body,
that can reduce the signal strength.
and that affects the
accuracy that we have.
As a result,
when the signal strength is decreased,
that may cause us to think that
an iBeacon is actually in the far
zone when it may actually be near.
So this is just an important thing
to consider as you're deploying it,
and I'll talk about some deployment
considerations in a little bit.
But this signal attenuation and
signal strength is probably the most
important thing for you to understand.
There's a couple best practices
that we've come up with for
using these new ranging APIs.
Now,
the first is the ranging APIs are really
intended to be used interactively,
meaning not while the device is
locked and in a pocket or in a
purse or something like that.
You're going to get the best
results when the user has their
device out and it's in their hand,
your app is front most,
and they're actually interacting.
Because that's where the antennas
are probably not blocked by anything,
and it's your best chance for getting
a line of sight to the beacon.
And that's when you
get your best results,
is when a device has clear line
of sight not blocked by physical
objects or other human bodies.
Now when CoreLocation reports
to you what beacons it sees,
you know,
if you're using just a single beacon,
then things are pretty clear.
You just get your proximity zone and
you determine what to do at that point.
But if you're in a situation like
imagine a retail store where you
may have multiple beacons for
different departments or whatnot,
CoreLocation is actually going to
return these beacons sorted by our
best guess as to the proximity.
So we'll try to put
the closest one first.
But it's really important that you
are flexible if you're ranging to
multiple beacons and all of them are
reporting they're in the far zone.
You want to be flexible with that.
You may build a user interface
where you present to the user,
well, here are the beacons that we see,
but we don't know exactly
which one is closest.
So we're going to let you pick.
Let the user have kind of some
involvement into the interaction here.
Now,
if you see immediate or maybe even near,
you may want to lock in on that
because our confidence is higher.
But with the beacons in the far zone,
maybe, you know,
just show the user what they are.
Let them kind of drive the engagement.
Now,
calibration is a really important thing.
And it's crucial for you to calibrate
the experience and the beacons
in as close to the environment,
if not the actual environment,
that you plan to deploy them.
You need to consider the
placement of beacons,
where they are.
Are you mounting them under a table,
behind a sign?
Or can you mount them
kind of in the clear?
Are they above people's heads or not?
And you also want to test and
calibrate with the expected number
of people in the environment.
Because the signals are
affected by the human body,
you want to make sure that
you have the estimated number
of people in the environment.
And then once you've done that,
you want to see what
the results are like.
Are you getting immediate
and near proximities?
Or do you only see far?
If you only see far,
then maybe you need to consider
deploying more beacons.
And then you want to pull up
on the beacons that you have,
just to increase the likelihood that
the device will get a strong signal.
Now one thing to consider is that iOS
devices themselves can be beacons.
Any Bluetooth low energy enabled iOS
device can be turned into a beacon.
An app can request it begin
broadcasting a beacon signal.
There's a bunch of examples
that this makes sense in,
you know,
point of sale apps or really any type of
app that is in a single purpose like a
kiosk mode is one way of looking at it.
That's a great candidate for
using the iOS device as a beacon.
But there's a big caveat
that comes with this,
and this is one of the most
common questions I get.
The app has to be frontmost and
the device needs to be unlocked,
right?
You can't be broadcasting,
an app cannot request a
device broadcast as an iBeacon
when it's in the background.
So if you need that,
then you might want to be
looking at battery powered
iBeacons when they're available.
So that's just a summary on iBeacon.
New Bluetooth technology that
enables region monitoring
and proximity detection.
These are great for mobile
objects or indoor use cases.
You need to pay attention to the
accuracy and the signal strength
in real world environments.
You want to calibrate and test
in these real world scenarios to
ensure the best user experience.
So that's the three technologies
I wanted to go through.
Background transfer and
minimizing install time,
multitasking and keeping your
app snapshots up to date,
and then iBeacon for providing an
entire new class of location aware apps.
So if you have any questions,
here's my contact information.
I'll be in the labs immediately
following this session.
And then at the reception
in the afternoon,
we've got some documentation online.
There's a very active core location
forum on our developer forum.
So I encourage you to
participate in those discussions.
And then in addition to that,
we talked a lot about all of these new
technologies at WWDC this past year.
And obviously, I've just scratched the
surface on all of these.
So definitely check out these videos.
What's New in Foundation Networking
went into NSURL session and all of the
functionality that is offered there.
What's New in Multitasking went
through the remote notifications
and background fetch.
And then two sessions
talked about iBeacons.
One was What's New in Core Location,
which went through the new APIs.
And then this last one, Harnessing iOS to
Create Magic in Your Apps,
was actually a session given by the
Apple retail store engineering team,
talking about how you might use iBeacon.
And they had given an example
of using it in a museum for
interactive exhibit information.
So thank you very much.